Well let's see if we can work on the U-V mapping for the face.
Now when we last left off I was kind of wondering what we could do about the face and the problem is
is that we've got a pretty big difference between the back of the head and the front of the head in
terms of the size of the U-V test pattern.
So what I'd like to do is try and change the proportion a bit so we have more even squares from the
front of the face to the back of the head.
So let's see if we can do that.
So here is our you've had head.
I'm going to press the control up arrow to go to full screen here for this particular window and I'm
going to choose U-V Island selection right down here and I can select this and hit the G key and move
it around in the Arkie and rotate it.
And I also think i'll scale it up a bit just so I can see it a little better.
All right so how are we going to make this part of the face larger in proportion to the rest of the
U-V Island.
Well Blendr has some tools down here that we can use I'm going to click on the UVA's menu and it's got
this pin feature and it's got live unwrap and these can be pretty useful.
Let's try these.
I'm going to first turn on live unwrap and now I'm going to come out here and in Virtex mode I'm going
to click here or U-V selection mode I should say I'm going to select just these four corners here.
You know what I should do is seal up this particular seam.
I don't really need this seemed to be broken out.
So let me go back and do that real quick.
All we have to do is just select these edges and clear the clear the seams so I'm just going to select
these edges and press control E and clear seam.
Now I can come back and hover over this portion of the model press the L key that will only select this
area and I'm going to unwrap this again I'll press you and unwrap and there we go.
So it's just the head again without that seem broken off.
Press Control arrow again to go to full screen and now I'm going to select these points again all the
way around.
So one here one here and one here just so I've got these four corners selected and then I'm just going
to press the key.
And if you can see what it's done it's added these little red markers to each of those points and those
are our pins.
Now with live unwrap on here I have it checked.
I can select one of these points hit the key to move and you can see it kind of stretches it and scales
it based on the position of those pinned vertices.
So I'm going to try and just reduce the size of everything else but the face a bit like this just selecting
these and moving them around a little bit like so fast control up there and go take a look at this and
it's helped a little bit.
These now are a little bit bigger in the back.
These are still kind of too big in the front.
So let's see if we can find another tool that will help us what we can use now is the proportional editing
tool and I'm going to middle mouse button click and drag over here so I can move this bar and we can
see it here.
So what this can allow us to do is will basically change the proportion of the island here so I'm going
to first of all press the C key and that gives me the circle select brush.
And I'm just going to come in here and select I'm going to scroll the mouse wheel to make the brush
a little bigger and then I'm going to select everything in here.
Let me try this.
Now going to come down here and turn on the proportional editing tool and let me once again press control
up arrow to make this a little bit bigger so we can see it.
And if I press the esky for the scale tool we can't see it yet I'm going to zoom out now and press the
key here is the proportional editing brush and I'm going to zoom in with the scroll wheel or make it
smaller with the scroll wheel.
So now if I hit the key you can see I've got the boundaries of the proportional editing scale.
And if I move the mouse it'll kind of scale it up like this.
See how it's kind of scaling up the center of the brush.
Bigger than the outside of it.
So let me go back here control up arrow and let me watch this to see what I can do with this.
See if we can do to press the s key and I'm going to expand that a bit maybe scroll in some Yeah see
how it's kind of getting those squares to be a little bit smaller in proportion to the rest of the island.
And we come around here and look.
Now we're getting some stretching here and that's going to happen a bit let me try this again maybe
something like this let's try this.
That's not looking too bad.
We've got the squares up front and the squares in the back about the same size and kind of like it to
be a little bit bigger if I could.
There we go something like that.
OK.
So that's pretty good.
We've got some stretching as I said and you can see it here.
So what can we do about that.
Well let's press the control up here again and zoom in and what we can do about this is once again press
the C key and I'm going to select these vertices are these Uvas in here where the stretching is happening.
And let's see if we can do something about this.
Now I'm going to if you look under the Uvas menu you can see that we've got this minimized stretch which
is control the.
So I'm going to press control the and then look how it's relaxed it quite a bit.
And then I can scroll the mouse wheel and change how much it's being relaxed.
Now if there we go see you can see it on the model there.
And that's kind of stretched but that's not bad right there.
So that's a couple of ways that we can read proportion are U.V. Islands to get a better lay out for
something like the face.
All right.
Let's go back to the default view and let's think about these hands.
So for this I'm going to press the L key to select this and the L key to it that and then press shift.
H Well I think what I'm going to do is I'm going to try using a seam right down here or something to
press the old key and click on this edge and I'll center that up and then press the C key and press
the middle mouse button to de-select these edges right here and then oh Mark ISim control e and Marxian.
Now let's go see how this is going to work for us.
Back to the editor frame that up and press you and unwrap.
All right.
Yeah that's not too bad.
So let's go ahead and do that with the rest of the fingers as well.
I'll break them apart with these edges down here.
I like this and I'll grab this edge right along here as well.
Now that I've broken those apart with those seams I'll go ahead and select these edges here.
This edge.
This this this and then with that circle select tool that c key I will come in here and middle mouse
button click and drag to de-select these
like so control easy mark scheme and let's see what we can do with these you and unwrap.
Yeah that looks pretty good.
Let's go back to the default view.
Press alt h to bring everything back and all go back to object mode and press shift see to center everything
up.
Now you may have noticed that I haven't done this glove this hand or this leg as well as the buckle
here and that's because I'm going to mirror these over from one side to the other.
So I'm actually going to wait and mirror these over at the very end and there you the islands will then
be one on top of the other and therefore will.
We should be able to get all the remaining islands a little bigger and therefore more resolution the
U.V. map.
So to do that let's go through and select all of these pieces and I'm just going to hit X and delete
faces all of these.
So now let's go back to the U-V editor and what we can do here is select everything and I'll select
everything over here.
And I notice I mean press control up arrow again.
I still have some pins I need to clear those.
So with everything is selected I can come down to this Uvas menu and you can see here that unpinned
is Alt.
P So I'll just press alt P to get rid of all the pens.
And now what I want to do is I'm going to use this average Island scale control a and pack islands control
P So I'll average the scale of all the U-V islands with control a.
And then I'll pack them all into this zero to one space with control P.
Now that's not bad but I think I would like the characters face to be a little bit bigger in relation
to everything else because that's where they're going to be a main focus of the character.
So I'm going to come over here to U-V Island select and just click on this U-V island.
I'll come down here and turn off the proportional editing tool.
And then I'll hit R and rotate it so we can see it here and I'll scale it up just a bit just so we get
a little bit more resolution on that.
Now what I'll do is all REPAK so I'll press a to select everything and this time I won't press control
a because I don't want to read average everything.
I just want to pack everything in with its current proportions so I press control P and there we go.
Now if I press control up arrow to come back here you can see in this panel I've got my rotate checkbox
I'm going to click this and that'll bring it back so that face U-V island is kind of upright.
All right so that looks pretty good.
So I'm in a press control up there again and take a look at it.
And here we have it.
Now what about the other pieces.
Well all we need to do is duplicate them mirror them over and they're U-V islands will appear right
underneath the current ones.
So let's give that a try.
I'm going to do this in the default view just so I can see it a little better.
So what I mean by that is I'll take the leg here.
Pressing the L key to select all of that or select that to we go.
So now I want to duplicate this with shift D and I'll press enter and then I want to split it out into
its own object so I'll press the P key which will bring up the separate menu and I'll click selection.
Now here it is here.
There it is I mean just press the key and you can see it there.
Now I'll just go to add a modifier and mirror and then I'll click apply.
And what that did is it duplicated it married it over with the U-V map and placed it right underneath
the current U-V Island.
So let's do that again let's try this glove here.
I'm going to hit the L key to select that press shift d enter press P selection here it is here I'll
add a mirror modifier and then apply it there.
All right how about the hand.
Let's tap into here.
I'll press the L key for this shift D.
Press the enter key p separate by selection.
Here it is mere modifier and apply.
And then lastly if we just select this belt buckle I can select that and duplicate it.
Chris P and separate it out.
And there it is now the pivot point is down here.
I'm going to move that origin to the geometry zoom in.
And now I can just move it up and put it into place.
So now if we go back to the U-V editor once we combine all of these objects together because if I select
this you can see that the pieces that we duplicated and mirrored still aren't a part of this so we need
to hit the A key to select everything.
Press Control J.
To join all the pieces into one object.
Now if I hit the tab key and the A key you can see that they're all in here.
They're just one underneath the other.
So let's see if we can find one.
There it is.
So you can see the duplicate of that piece is right there underneath it.
And that's just one way to help maximize the resolution within the U-V map.
All right.
Well I think we did it.
I think we've U-V mapped our character and in the next series of videos we'll begin working on breaking
out our normal map and our ambient occlusion map so that we can capture our high resolution sculped
details onto the low polygon object.